.\" merisio-cli(1) - Merisio CLI tool man page
.TH MERISIO-CLI 1 "2026-02-06" "Merisio 1.3.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
merisio-cli \- command-line interface for Merisio project files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B merisio-cli
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.I file
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B merisio-cli
is a command-line tool for working with
.B .merisio
project files without launching the graphical editor. It can display project
information, validate MCD models, generate PostgreSQL DDL, show the logical
data model, and export diagrams to image formats.
.PP
It is intended for scripting, CI/CD pipelines, and batch processing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit. Can also be used after a command name to show
command-specific help (e.g.
.BR "merisio-cli file.merisio export \-\-help" ).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version number and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS info
Show project metadata and statistics.
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli
.I file
.B info
.RE
.PP
Displays the project name, author, description, creation and modification
timestamps, and counts of entities, associations, links, and attributes.
.SS validate
Validate the MCD model.
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli
.I file
.B validate
.RE
.PP
Checks the model for errors. If any are found, they are printed to stdout
and the process exits with code 1. If validation passes, a success message
is printed and the process exits with code 0.
.SS sql
Generate PostgreSQL DDL.
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli
.I file
.B sql
.RB [ \-o
.IR output ]
.RE
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIpath\fP
Write SQL to a file instead of stdout.
.SS mld
Show the logical data model (MLD tables).
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli
.I file
.B mld
.RE
.PP
Prints all tables with their columns, primary keys, foreign keys, and
nullability constraints.
.SS export
Export diagram to PNG, SVG, or PDF.
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli
.I file
.B export
.B \-\-format
.IR fmt
.B \-o
.IR output
.RB [ \-\-scale
.IR factor ]
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIfmt\fP
Export format. Must be one of:
.BR png ", " svg ", " pdf .
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIpath\fP
Output file path (required).
.TP
.BR \-\-scale " " \fIfactor\fP
Scale factor for PNG export. Default is 2.0. Ignored for SVG and PDF.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Validation failed (one or more errors in the MCD model).
.TP
.B 2
Runtime error (file not found, write failure, unsupported format, etc.).
.SH EXAMPLES
Show project information:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio info
.RE
.PP
Validate a model (useful in CI):
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio validate
.RE
.PP
Generate SQL to stdout:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio sql
.RE
.PP
Generate SQL to a file:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio sql -o schema.sql
.RE
.PP
View the MLD tables:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio mld
.RE
.PP
Export a high-resolution PNG:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio export --format png -o diagram.png --scale 3.0
.RE
.PP
Export an SVG:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio export --format svg -o diagram.svg
.RE
.PP
Export a PDF:
.PP
.RS
.B merisio-cli project.merisio export --format pdf -o diagram.pdf
.RE
.SH FILE FORMAT
See
.BR merisio (1)
for a description of the
.B .merisio
project file format.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR merisio (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Achraf Soltani <achraf.soltani@pm.me>
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v2.
