.\" merisio(1) - Merisio GUI application man page
.TH MERISIO 1 "2026-02-06" "Merisio 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
merisio \- a modern MERISE database modeling tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B merisio
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Merisio
is a graphical MERISE database modeling application built with Python and
PySide6. It provides a visual editor for creating and editing Conceptual Data
Models (MCD), viewing the derived Logical Data Model (MLD), and generating
PostgreSQL DDL statements.
.PP
When launched without arguments, the graphical editor opens.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a brief usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the version number and exit.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B MCD Editor
Visual diagram editor for entities, associations, and links with
drag-and-drop positioning, multi-selection, cardinalities (0,1), (0,N),
(1,1), (1,N), and configurable link styles (curved, orthogonal, straight).
.TP
.B Data Dictionary
Overview of all attributes across entities.
.TP
.B MLD View
Logical Data Model with auto-generated table/column tree view.
Column names can be renamed by right-clicking or double-clicking.
.TP
.B SQL Generation
PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE statements derived from the MLD.
.TP
.B Diagram Export
Export diagrams to SVG, PNG, or PDF formats via File > Export Diagram.
.TP
.B Diagram Colours
Customisable colours for entities, associations, and links via
Options > Diagram Colours.
.SH FILE FORMAT
Projects are stored as JSON files with the
.B .merisio
extension (format version 2.1). A project file contains metadata, MCD
definitions (entities, associations, links), MLD column overrides, and
colour settings.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TS
l l.
Ctrl+N	New Project
Ctrl+O	Open Project
Ctrl+S	Save Project
Ctrl+1	Dictionary Tab
Ctrl+2	MCD Tab
Ctrl+3	MLD Tab
Ctrl+4	SQL Tab
Delete	Delete Selected
Ctrl+Scroll	Zoom In/Out
Ctrl++	Zoom In
Ctrl+-	Zoom Out
Ctrl+0	Fit to View
Ctrl+Shift+0	Reset Zoom (100%)
.TE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR merisio-cli (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Achraf Soltani <achraf.soltani@pm.me>
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v2.
